[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
roger johnson and nina warhorse
good morning happy easter our headlines
today a plan for the return of large
public gatherings the fa cup final will
be among the pilot events
for the government's covert passport
scheme the traffic light system is being
planned for the reintroduction of
international travel but
a warning not to book foreign holidays
just yet
a second night of violence in northern
ireland vehicles are hijacked and set on
fire in
a loyalist area of belfast and there's
an historic procession in egypt as the
mummies of 22 ancient rulers are
transported
through the streets of cairo good
morning
carl frampton caused time on his career
after losing last night
the northern irishman was floored twice
by jamal herring
in his wbo super featherweight title
fight
good morning to well our easter sunday
is looking pretty good for many of us
plenty of sunshine around it'll feel a
bit warmer certainly across england and
wales
but it's all changed tonight for easter
monday it's going to be a bit of a shock
to the system
join me later to find out all the
details
[Music]
it is easter sunday april the 4th our
top story this morning trials of covert
passports will get underway in
england later this month as the
government looks to safely restart mass
gatherings and
indoor events a traffic light system is
also being planned for the
reintroduction of international travel
but there's a warning
not to book summer holidays abroad just
yet here's our political correspondent
nick hurdley
this feels like a long time ago it's
been more than a year
since we saw packed football grounds in
the uk
but the government is testing ways to
get fans back in stadiums
and certificates showing your covered
status could be the answer
the government has confirmed it's
developing a system designed to allow
people in england
to return to mass events you'd be asked
to prove that you'd had either
the vaccine a recent negative test or
that you had natural immunity
from having had the virus in the
previous six months
the plan will be tested at the world
snooker championships later this month
the crucible a pilot for what could
become a much wider scheme
a nightclub and an outdoor cinema in
liverpool will be used as test sites too
when pubs and restaurants reopen in
england later this month
you won't need to prove your covert
status but downing street hasn't ruled
out happening later in the year
perhaps to reduce the need for social
distancing
but the government doesn't want coveted
certificates for public transport
or supermarkets and other essential
shops
and some devolved governments are
skeptical about the plan
the prime minister said we are doing
everything we can to enable the
reopening of our country
so people can return to the events
travel and other things
they love as safely as possible there
will be an update on foreign travel
tomorrow too
but don't expect to be booking holidays
just yet
ministers are planning a traffic light
system for england
green would mean you don't need to
quarantine on return
amber would mean you do at home red and
you'd have to quarantine in a hotel
but the government doesn't know which
countries will be in each category
some devolved governments want a strict
system and it'll be the middle of next
month at the earliest before foreign
holidays
start up again nick hurdley bbc news
let's talk to our political
correspondent jessica parker who joins
us this morning
um jessica nick they're talking about
foreign holidays you can of course book
them but you can't go on them
at the moment there has been more detail
from the cabinet minister michael gove
in the papers
this morning he's written a piece in the
uh sunday telegraph what's he said
yeah very senior cabinet minister uh
michael gove
and i think in a way he's sort of
rolling the pitch for the government
who are sending out their arguments as
to why they've moved from a place where
they talked about not using vaccine
passports to now saying they are
potentially inevitable uh for
international travel
and michael gove saying it raises the
question as to how they might work
here nick's been explaining there's
going to be a number of pilot events
going forward
my understanding is that those pilot
events will look at a number of things
so
testing on site ventilation social
distancing
and in terms of this idea of so-called
vaccine passports or covered status
certification
those pilot events are more likely to
happen a little bit later on
in may as the government looks to see
how this might work in future but i
think part of what michael gove's trying
to do
in his article where he talks about
practical ethical
questions how they need to make sure
that the measures are proportionate and
time limited
is to try and answer some of the
criticisms that have come
not least of all from their own back
benches in terms of these plans
um whatever you call them vaccine
passport covert status certification i
think you just said or covered passport
or whatever
uh not necessarily all mps are happy
with this so
is there a possibility that it might
actually not get voted through in the
com
yeah it's an interesting question you're
right there is a lot of lingo
surrounding this
um i think certainly the government is
facing potential opposition in the
commons uh some conservative mps have
said the idea is discriminatory part of
a sort of
checkpoint society the labour leader
sakir stama
has raised his doubts as well uh
suggesting this week that he thought the
idea of domestic vaccine passports
would be against the british instinct
although he said he'd want to look at
any government
of proposals it's interesting though
they have removed this idea of
potentially having to use this
certification to get into places like
pubs and that had been a particular
focus in recent weeks
so they might be hoping that that will
uh go some way to
allaying concerns of conservative mps
certainly but we'll have to see how it
plays out
jessica thank you very much there was a
second night of violence in a loyalist
area of belfast last night petrol bombs
bricks and bottles were thrown at police
during a sustained riot in newton abbey
well our reporter john campbell is in
belfast for us this morning and has been
following
events how were how were in were the
scenes last night
well we saw um some significant violence
on the streets of newton abbey cars were
hijacked and
set a light that drew police into the
area and then those police vehicles were
also attacked
there's no reports of any injuries at
this stage
this was the second night of trouble the
trouble in south belfast on friday night
has led to seven people being charged
with riot the youngest of them
is a boy of just 13. the background to
this
is simmering tension in lawless
communities over the northern ireland
brexit deal
and also over an issue last week where
the public prosecution service here
decided not to prosecute some senior
shin fian members who'd attended a large
funeral
in apparent breach of corona virus
regulations that led to
some quite heated rhetoric among
unionist politicians
and some of that now appears to be
spilling out onto the streets
john thank you john campbell with the
latest from belfast
now 22 ancient egyptian mummies were
taken
on a historic procession through the
streets of cairo last night to be
relocated
to a new museum in the south of the city
feast your eyes on this
18 kings and four queens were
transported in gold coffins
which preserve the low temperatures to
ensure the bodies don't deteriorate
any further at these are some of egypt's
most
precious treasures
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news